?????? VPC (especially VPC peering), some security questions ?????

VPC Essentials -->
  VPC enable you to launch AWS resources into virtual network that we define as per need. This is very similar to on-premises data center but scalable.
  means, this makes sure how securely data should flow through including access points, internal and external routing, security layers and instance endpoints.
 
 A VPC is designed to resemble: 1. private on-premises data centers, 2. private corporate network
 
 following are Private network features available in AWS VPC -->
    1. private and public subnets, 2. scalable architecture 3. ability to extend on-premises network into cloud as its a part of same environment, through VPN.
  
  Important VPC facts -->
    A VPC spans across multiple AZs within a Region (can't span across multiple region). High availability and fault tolerant architecture.
    AWS provides DNS servers so that each VPC instance can have its own hostname. However, this can be changed in VPC configuartion by setting DHCP option. 
  
  Benefits of VPC --> 
    Ability to launch instances into subnet
    Ability to define custom CIDR (IP address range) inside each subnet
    Ability to configure routes between subnets via route tables
    Ability to configure Internet Gateway to provide route to internet from inside VPC 
    Ability to create layered network of resources
    Ability to extend corporate/on-premise network to cloud via VPN/VPG
    Layered Security -->
      Instance level security groups (firewall on the instance level)
      subnet level network ACLs (firewall on the subnet level)
      
      example:- hirarchy for different network component:
        NACL (on top) --> Subnet --> Security groups --> EC2 instances
   
Default VPC features -->  preconfigured and created at the time of AWS account creation
      Default VPC and non-default VPC has significant differences
      In default VPC, all subnet have a route to inetrnet via route table and attached IGW.
      Each instances on the default VPC has private and public IP addess (defined on subnet settings)

VPC Limits -->
    5 VPC per region (more can be requested)
    5 Internet Gateway per region (this is equal to VPC, because one VPC can have One IG)
    50 customer Gateways per region
    50 VPN connections per region
    200 route tables / 50 entries in each table
    5 Elastic IP address per region
    500 Security groups per VPC and/ 50 rules per security groups
    5 security groups per network interface (because, security groups are genrally on instance level but technically considered on VPC level)

CIDR Notation -->
VPC IP addressing --> 
  IPv4 --> (public and private addresses)
        -->  32 bit, 4 (8-bit) octates, (example, XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX(0-255))
  IPv6 --> Public addresses)
        --> 128 bits, 8 (4-char) hexadecimal, 
  CIDR Notation (IPv4) --> (example, XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX(0-255)/XX(0-32)) means --> range of IP address
      example:- (0.0.0.0/0 --> entire internet --> range from 0.0.0.0 to 255.255.255.255)
            --> (10.0.0.0/32 --> only one address --> 10.0.0.0)
            --> (10.0.0.0/16 --> 65,536 address --> range from 10.0.0.0 to 10.0.255.255)

VPC Endpoint -->
  Gateway Endpoints -->
  Interface Endpoints --> cloudWatch logs, codeBuild, KMS, Kinesis, Service Catalog
  
Horizontal scaling vs Vertical Scaling --->
Horizontal scaling means that you scale by adding more machines into your pool of resources whereas Vertical scaling means that you scale by adding more power (CPU, RAM) to an existing machine.

VPC Networking -->
  Internet Gateway -->
    allows the communication between instances and Internet.
    it can scale horizontally, highly available and redundant
    there is a slight risk of no availability or bandbwidth constraints on network.
    Provides NAT translation (public IP to private IP) for instances that have public IP address assigned 
    Default VPC always comes with IGW attahced.
  IGW imp rules -->
    one IGW per VPC at a time
    IGW cant be detached from VPC while there is any active AWS resources on VPC (like EC2, RDS)
    IGW is must when communication needed between internet and AWS resources on VPC
  
Rules for Enabling Internet Access to/from VPC -->
To enable access to or from the internet for instances in a VPC subnet, you must do the following.
    Attach an internet gateway to your VPC.
    Ensure that your subnet's route table points to the internet gateway.
    Ensure that instances in your subnet have a globally unique IP address (public IPv4 address, Elastic IP address, or IPv6 address).
    Ensure that your network access control and security group rules allow the relevant traffic to flow to and from your instance.
  
  Route Tables -->
    it contains set of rules that used to determine where netwrok traffic is directed, called routes.
    2 major components -->
      Destination --> CIDR block range of target (IP address)
      Target --> a name identifier where data is directed (name of that specific IP address)
    By default, all subnet traffic is allowed to each other within VPC, and its can't be modified. known as local route.
    Can have more than one active route table in a VPC
    can't delete route table if it has dependencies, (associated subnets), means remove IP address first and then only delete route table.
    Default VPC always comes with one default route table.
    Default route table doesn't have any explicit subnet associatd with it. Means, All default available subnet are non-explicitely associated with default route table and hence default VPC. If user explicitly associate any subnet to different route table, that subnet will not appear in default route table.
    Best practice, is to untouch default route table and create new needed route table.
 
 Subnets --> Short form of Sub-Network, is a sub section of a network.
 Generally, subnet includes all of the computers in the same location.
 When you create a VPC, it span across AZ within same region. 
    After creating VPC, we can add one or more subnet in each AZ
    subnet doesn't span across AZs
    A subnet must be associated with route tables
    A public subnet has a route to internet, means that public subnet is associated with a route table that has an IGW attached.
    A private subnet doesn't have a route to internet, means private subnet associated with a route table doesn't have an IGW attached.
    Instances launched in private subnet can't communicate to internet.
      --> This creates higher level of security but introduce few limitation as well(like, not able to update software, install patches)
      --> This limitation can be overcome by routing traffic through NAT instances.

Firewall --> A type of software that either allow or deny certain kinds of internet traffic to pass through.
 
 NACLs --> (Newtork Access Control List) --> A firewall or security layer on subnet level
    ACL operates at network and subnet level
    supports both DENY and ALLOW rules
    NACLs are "stateless": so return traffic must be allowed with outbound rule
    NACLs process rules in sequencial orders for allow or Deny on same port,  
      example: if rule to deny specific traffic at lower number, and allow at higher number then allow will be ignored and it will deny the traffic.
    Last rule in every NACL is catch all "DENY" rule, this is because all rules above this line will get precedence.
    NACL is optional layer of security for VPC, that acts as a firewall for controlling in and out traffic of one or more subnets.
    Best practice to incremenet rules by 10 numbers, so that if needed some rule can be fit in between.
    Note: Default VPC already have a NACL and that is associated with default subnets.
    A subnet can only be associated with one NACL at a time. 
      
 Security Groups -->  security or firewall at instance level
    are security at instance level, as oppose to NACL which is at subnet level.
    Security groups also has allow/deny rules, same as NACL, but works differently:
      security groups supports only allow rules, by default everything is denied.
      They are stateful, means return traffic is by default allowed regardless of rules
      all rules are evaluted before deciding to allow traffic.
    Best practice is to allow only those trafffic that is required.
 
 VPC Networking --> High Availability and Fault Tolerance (using Auto Scaling Group)
    Auto Scaling --> This is an AWS service, that automates the process of increasing or decreasing the number of instances as per need, either with manual interaction as on-demand or using cloudWatch metrics analysis/ alarm trigger.
        This above concept is also known as elastcity of AWS environment.
      Auto scaling components -->
        Launch Configuration --> EC2 templates needs to be used at the time of provisioning additional instances (i.e AMI, instance type, user data, storage type, security groups, etc)
        Auto Scaling Groups --> contains all the rules and settings that govern if/when EC2 instance automatically provisioned /                       terminated. (No of Min/Max instances, VPCs/AZs to launch instances into, SNS notifications, scaling policies, etc
Note:- An ideal highly available and fault tolerant architecture must have ELB serving traffic, and ASG with a min of 2 instances located in seperate AZ.

  ELB --> (its an EC2 service)
    --> ELB can distribute incoming traffic across multiple EC2 instances across multiple AZs for High Availability and Fault Tolerance architecture
    --> ELB usually paired with Auto Scaling to improve High Availability and Fault Tolerance.
    --> when ELB used within VPC, it works as an internal load balancer. (i.e, on private subnet)
    --> ELB will automatically stops serving traffic to those instances that become unhealthy.
    --> If SSL certificate applies on ELB, a significant improve in compute power can be seen at instance
    
VPC - Bastion Host and NAT Gateway -->
    Bastion Host --> an EC2 instance that lives in a public subnet and used as a Gateway for traffic that is destined for instances lived in private subnet. (means, bastion host is a portal to access EC2 instances of private subnet)
       This is the "critical strong point" of network. Very tight security rules should be considered.
       A bastion host can also be used to "SSH" directly into AWS inside network to access private resources without VPN.
    
    NAT Gateways --> used to provide access to internet for EC2 instances that resides at private subnet.
      This will prevent any host outside of VPC to make connection to instnace on private subnet.
      NAT gateway only allow incoming traffic if request was initiated from instnace resides at private subnet. (means, a response of a request and not the request)
      **NAT Gateway must be created in public subnet.
      **Be part of private subnets route table.
    
    NAT Instances --> purpose is identical to NAT Gateway, however executed differently by configuring actual EC2 instnaces to perform the same job.
      
Quiz notes --> 
1. What is required for a subnet to be considered "public"? 
  answer: It must be associated with a Route Table that is configured with a route to an IGW
  explanation --> A subnet is considered "public" when resources (e.g. an ec2 instance) placed inside it can communicate with and be accessed by resources/user over the open internet. A subnet must be associated with a RT that has a route to the IGW for this to be possible.
2. For an EC2 instance to communicate with the internet, it must have an IP that is configured for public use. This can be assigned to the instance through assigning it a public IP during creation OR by creating and attaching an Elastic IP address.
    
    
